# Problem Set 5

It's time to put your skills to the test. This problem set focuses on programming in JavaScript. More specifically, it focuses on using [Canvas API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API) functions (not to be confused with the Canvas we use for submitting assignments), writing your own functions, and connecting those functions to buttons in your HTML. Yes, HTML and CSS are back!

## Getting Started

To get started, create a [GitHub](https://github.com/) repository to store your code. When you're finished, clone my skeleton to get all of the starter code and instructions. Setup a remote to push your code to your repository instead of mine.

### Setup

1. Login to your GitHub account and create a new repository named `pset-5`.
2. In the terminal, navigate to your `APCSP` directory on the `Desktop`.
```
$ cd ~/Desktop/APCSP
```
3. Clone my skeleton repository into a directory named `pset-5`.
```
$ git clone git@github.com:ap-principles-ucvts/pset-5-skeleton.git pset-5
````
4. Change into your newly created `pset-5` directory.
```
$ cd pset-5
```
5. Overwrite the remote, which originally points at my skeleton repository.
```
$ git remote rename origin upstream
```
6. Add a new remote that points at your `pset-5` repository. Replace `YOUR-USERNAME` with your actual username.
```
$ git remote add origin git@github.com:YOUR-USERNAME/pset-5.git
```

## Exercises

The specifications for each exercise are outlined below. Your job is to write lines of code to draw the specific shapes and figures on the canvas. Your code must meet the requirements set forth in this section. Each solution must be written in its own function within the same file. You can (and should, where appropriate) write helper functions that perform common tasks across more than one exercise.

Work through these exercises on your own. Experiment, make mistakes, ask questions, and fix your mistakes. It's the only way to get good at programming.

### Exercise 1

Implement a function that draws a message on the canvas. Prompt the user for the message to be drawn.

* The origin must be (30, 70).
* The font must be `sans-serif`.
* The font size must be `48px`.
* The message text must be outlined (i.e., unfilled).
* The message text cannot exceed 50 characters.
* The message text cannot exceed the bounds of the canvas.

Make sure you clear the canvas before drawing. Never draw on top of a previous drawing. Continuously prompt the user for a valid message. If he or she clicks `Cancel`, you can break out of the cycle and draw nothing at all. If you're unsure what you're supposed to do, click the `Sample` button for a hint.

If you clicked the `Sample` button, those popups you saw were generated by the `prompt` and `alert` functions. They are built-in function much like `console.log`. You can check out their documentation [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/prompt) and [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/alert).

### Exercise 2

Implement a function that draws an unfilled rectangle on the canvas. Prompt the user for the x- and y-cooredinates of the topleft corner of the rectangle. Your rectangle must meet each of the following positional requirements.

* The width of the rectange must be between 1 and the width of the canvas.
* The height of the rectangle must be between 1 and height of the canvas.
* The x- and y- coordinates cannot be less than 1.
* The rectangle cannot exceed the bounds of the canvas.

Make sure you clear the canvas before drawing. Never draw on top of a previous drawing. Continuously prompt the user for valid coordinates and dimensions. If he or she clicks `Cancel`, you can break out of the cycle and draw nothing at all. If you're unsure what you're supposed to do, click the `Sample` button for a hint.

### Exercise 3

Implement a function that draws a filled rectangle on the canvas. Prompt the user for the color of the rectangle, which must be a case-insensitive supported color.

* `Black`
* `Blue`
* `Green`
* `Orange`
* `Purple`
* `Red`
* `Yellow`

The rectangle must meet the following positional requirements.

* The origin of the rectangle must be (10, 10).
* The width of the rectangle must be 100.
* The height of the rectangle must be 50.

Make sure you clear the canvas before drawing. Never draw on top of a previous drawing. Continuously prompt the user for a valid color. If he or she clicks `Cancel`, you can break out of the cycle and draw nothing at all. If you're unsure what you're supposed to do, click the `Sample` button for a hint.

### Exercise 4

Implement a function that draws a right triangle on the canvas. Prompt the user for each of the three side lengths.

* The shortest side length will be the `height`.
* The longest side length will be the `hypotenuse`.
* The remaining side lenght will be the `base`.

All triangles must be drawn so that the `height` is the leftmost side, the `base` is the bottom side, and the `hypotenuse` connects the two in a top-to-bottom, left-to-right direction. By default, position the topleft vertex of your triangle at (25, 25).

* The side lengths must be between 1 and the width of the canvas.
* The side lengths must comprise a valid right triangle.
* The right triangle cannot exceed the bounds of the canvas.

Make sure you clear the canvas before drawing. Never draw on top of a previous drawing. Continuously prompt the user for valid side lengths. If he or she clicks `Cancel`, you can break out of the cycle and draw nothing at all. If you're unsure what you're supposed to do, click the `Sample` button for a hint.

### Exercise 5

Implement a function that draws a smiley face on the canvas. Prompt the user for the radius of the head. The eyes and mouth will derive their dimensions from the radius of the head.

* The radius of the head must be between 32 and half the height of the canvas.
* The radius of the eyes must be 15% of the radius of the head.
* The radius of the mouth must be 70% of the radius of the head.
* The head must be centered around the midpoints (vertically and horizontally) of the canvas.
* The eyes must be centered around a point 40% to the left and right of the center of the head.
* The eyes must be centered around a point 40% above the center of the head.
* The mouth must be centered around center point of the head.
* The mouth must be an exact half-circle.
* The face cannot exceed the bounds of the canvas.

Make sure you clear the canvas before drawing. Never draw on top of a previous drawing. Continuously prompt the user for a valid radius. If he or she clicks `Cancel`, you can break out of the cycle and draw nothing at all. If you're unsure what you're supposed to do, click the `Sample` button for a hint.

### Exercise 6 (extra credit)

Implement a function that draws a pyramid on the canvas. Prompt the user for the side length of the blocks that comprise the pryamid. Each block will be identical, and there will be five rows of blocks.

* Blocks must have a side length of at least 1.
* The lowerright corner of the pyramid must be at (10, 10).
* The pyramid cannot exceed the bounds of the canvas.

Make sure you clear the canvas before drawing. Never draw on top of a previous drawing. Continuously prompt the user for a valid side length. If he or she clicks `Cancel`, you can break out of the cycle and draw nothing at all. If you're unsure what you're supposed to do, click the `Sample` button for a hint.

## Deadline

Please read very carefully. Historically, most students lose points on problem sets for simply failing to read the instructions and requirements.

* December 11, 2019, at 11:59pm.

If you submit your problem set at midnight (i.e., December 12, 2019, at 12:00am), it is considered **late**!

### Submission Requirements

* Your code **must** compile. Code that fails to meet this minimum requirement will not be accepted.
* There must be **at least** 15 unique commits to your repository.
* Your code must meet each requirement outlined in the Exercises and Deliverables sections.
* Your code must adhere to the course style guidelines.

Happy coding!
